The Rules of Golf – Simplified

Rule 1 – The Game
1. You start from within the teeing ground and hit the ball until it ends up in the hole.
Count all your swings made with the intention to hit the ball.
2. Don’t intentionally interfere with a moving ball or the conditions in its path.
3. You play by the Rules; don’t cheat.
4. If you cannot figure out the answer to situation by using the Rules, decide in Equity.

Rule 2 – Match Play
1. It’s “Me/Us” versus “You/Y’all” with scoring by holes (“player” versus “opponent”)
2. Tied Hole = “Halved hole”
3. Winner is person who has won the most holes. The match ends when a person is more
holes ahead (“up”) than there are holes left to be played.
4. A player can give (“concede”) a stroke, hole or the match at any time during the match.
5. If you question your opponent’s actions, you can ask for a ruling as long as it
happens at the time the question comes up; otherwise, it’s too late in most cases.
6. Penalty for most rules violations = Loss of Hole (if it’s not a one shot penalty)

Rule 3 – Stroke Play
1. Winner is the person with the lowest total score.
2. Hole out every hole. If you don’t, enjoy a hot fudge sundae at DQ on the way out of
town!
3. In Stroke Play only, if you don’t know what to do, you can play another ball.
a. How to play a second ball
i. Before you play a second ball, tell the person keeping your score or
another player in your group (“fellow competitor”) what you are
planning to do, why and which ball you want to count for your score.
ii. You must do (i) before you hit a shot with either ball.
iii. Tell the people running the event (“the Committee”) that you played
two balls before your return your score card. Otherwise, it’s a hot
fudge sundae stop.
b. What is your score for the hole? Here’s how the Committee will decide:
i. IF your procedure (see above) is correct, and the ball you want to count
was played properly, then this ball will count. If it wasn’t played
properly, the other ball will count presuming it was played properly.
ii. If you don’t say which ball you want to count, then your original ball
will count if played properly. If not, then the other ball if played
properly.
iii. If you don’t play either ball properly, then the original ball counts …
as long as you haven’t really messed up and would be eligible for a hot
fudge sundae. In which case, the second ball will count – unless you
are eligible for that sundae with it, too. In which case, put your clubs
away and find the nearest DQ.
14. If you don’t follow a Rule that affects another player’s rights, you are enjoying your
hot fudge sundae at DQ on the way out of town.
5. Penalty for most rules violations = Two (2) strokes (if it’s not a one shot penalty)
